Learning how computer systems work from a programmer’s perspective is great fun, mainly because you can do it actively. 

Whenever you learn something new, you can try it out right away and see the result firsthand. 

In fact, we believe that the only way to learn systems is to do systems, either working concrete problems or writing and running programs on real systems. 

---

This theme pervades the entire book. When a new concept is introduced, it is followed in the text by one or more practice problems that you should work immediately to test your understanding. 

Solutions to the practice problems are at the end of each chapter. 

As you read, try to solve each problem on your own and then check the solution to make sure you are on the right track. 

Each chapter is followed by a set of homework problems of varying difficulty. 

Your instructor has the solutions to the homework problems in an instructor’s manual. 

For each homework problem, we show a rating of the amount of effort we feel it will require:

◆ Should require just a few minutes. 
Little or no programming required. 
◆◆ Might require up to 20 minutes. 
Often involves writing and testing some code. (Many of these are derived from problems we have given on exams.) 
◆◆◆ Requires a significant effort, perhaps 1–2 hours. 
Generally involves writing and testing a significant amount of code. ◆◆◆◆ A lab assignment, requiring up to 10 hours of effort.

---

Each code example in the text was formatted directly, without any manual intervention, from a C program compiled with gcc and tested on a Linux system. 

Of course, your system may have a different version of gcc, or a different compiler altogether, so your compiler might generate different machine code; 

but the overall behavior should be the same. 

All of the source code is available from the CS:APP Web page (“CS:APP” being our shorthand for the book’s title) at csapp .cs.cmu.edu. 

In the text, the filenames of the source programs are documented in horizontal bars that surround the formatted code. 

For example, the program in Figure 1 can be found in the file hello.c in directory code/intro/. 

We encourage you to try running the example programs on your system as you encounter them. 

To avoid having a book that is overwhelming, both in bulk and in content, we have created a number of Web asides containing material that supplements the main presentation of the book. 

These asides are referenced within the book with a notation of the form chap:top, where chap is a short encoding of the chapter subject, and top is a short code for the topic that is covered.

For example, Web Aside data:bool contains supplementary material on Boolean algebra for the presentation on data representations in Chapter 2, while Web Aside arch:vlog contains material describing processor designs using the Verilog hardware description language, supplementing the presentation of processor design in Chapter 4. 

All of these Web asides are available from the CS:APP Web page.

---

